Automotive Electrification Innovations & Trends 2020: How does the industry react to recent market dynamics?

https://www.startus-insights.com/innovators-guide/automotive-industry-trends-10-innovations-that-will-impact-automotive-companies-in-2020-beyond/

- oil review bp: https://www.bp.com/en/global/corporate/energy-economics/statistical-review-of-world-energy/oil.html
-> yearly consumption of 35.869.280.000 barrels (2019)
-> total world reserve (2019) of: 1.733.900.000.000 barrels
-> years until depletion (if static consumption after 2019): 48,34 years


scihub


Exec summary/ key facts:
- EV sales are increasing
- EV market penetration is increasing
- EV market dynamics vary strongly by regions
- EV model range is drastically increasing
- Perceived consumer benefits outline importance of driving experience
- Major perceived consumer concerns are battery and charging, driving range and costs


Titel: Industry Innovation Automotive Series ~ Electrification
1 Introduction
The automotive industry has enjoyed years of sustaining profits and flowerishing markets. Despite periods of economic downturn, the market capitalization of the world's 5 biggest automotive manufacturers has gone up XX percent - outpacing non-automotive companies in the S&P500 by XXX percent.
More recently, increasing pressure arises from pushback due to environmental concerns forcing the automotive industry to adapt to more strict regulations and exhaust emission constraints. Thus, a Commerzbank analysis shows increasing innovation expenditures and thereby decreasing margins for OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) as well as for upstream suppliers.
A second reason for innovative pressure has undisputably emerged from new technologies aimed at replacing the high-emission combustion engine.
In that sense, the Battery Electric Vehicle ("BEV") has caused the incumbent manufacturers like BMW, Daimler, Toyota and Volkswagen to invest emense resources into researching what had been once been regarded as a nonsense project when Tesla first announced its fully electric luxury sedan Model S.
However, the challenges which had first caused traditional OEMs to dismiss the idea of a BEV have been overcome to a large degree by Tesla and others.
How is the rest of the article going to be structured? -> ...

2 Status quo
According to an article of McKinsey's Automotive and Assembly Practice from late July 2020, Electric Vehicle ("EV") worldwide sales increased by 65 percent between 2017 and 2018. However, the increase significantly slowed down in 2019, when the overall EV sales grew by a mere 9 percent. Partly, the authors attenuate these findings by relating to a 5 percent decline in the overall light-vehicle market as well as pointing out reduced or eliminated subsidies in China. 
Interestingly, EV market growth rates varied largely between China, Europe and the United States. While China's EV growth has slowed down to 3 percent from 2018 to 2019, growth in the USA even declined from an astonishing 80 percent to a negative growth of -12 percent. All this, while the growth in Europe rose from 34 (2017-2018) to 44 percent (2018-2019), making Europe the second largest EV market in the world with 590,000 units sold (compared to 1.2 million units in China and 320,000 units in the USA).
Notably, even despite COVID-19, EV market penetration rose by 0.3 percent in the first quarter of 2020 and is now at 2.8 percent. 
The following more detailed industry insights are drawn from three major sources, namely, the McKinsey EVI insights, the AlixPartners Disruption Insights and the McKinsey 'The road ahead for e-mobility' article. (links einfuegen) 

2.1 Hybrid-electric vehicles
Hybrid-electric vehicles as well as plug-in hybrid-electric vehicles are forecasted to rise in sales volume over the next 5-10 years though growing underproportionately to BEVs. Furthermore, Ruth Heuss (McKinsey senior partner, Berlin) forecasts that the number of available hybrid-electric derivates will remain less than half of the number of available BEH derivates. She grounds this prediction in the fact that global HEV sales made less than 33% of the total EV sales in 2019. These findings are supported by multiple major industry insights like the aforementioned McKinsey article, AlixPartners Disruption Insights and market research reports like this one (links einfuegen). 

2.2 Battery-electric vehicles
According to AlixPartners Disruption Insights 2020 on the automotive industry, sales of battery-electric vehicles and hybrid vehicles have increased by 85 percent from 2017 - 2019 which fits the data shown in the McKinsey article. Predictions of AlixPartners show an increase in both plug-in hybrid electric vehicle sales as well as in battery-electric vehicles accounting for a combined 13 percent of the global sales share in 2025. Therefore, it is quite understandable that virtually every automaker has announced to invest in electrification adding up to a total investment of 295 billion dollars for the years from 2019 to 2023. However, in order for these investments to break even, the market has to increase its relatively small market penetration of about 2.8 percent. 
In this equation the consumers play a key role. An AlixPartners consumer survey (link einfuegen) revealed that more than one quarter of the surveyed group intended to buy a battery-electric vehicle as their next car. As expected, this intent does not come without concerns which the automotive industry has to address in order to turn the heavy investments into real sales. According to the aforementioned survey, consumers are especially concerned about cost, battery range and charging infrastructure. A second consumer survey done by McKinsey goes into even more detail. 
How the traditional automakers as well as industry entrants might tackle these specific challenges is going to be further explained in the next section.
A second consumer survey conducted by McKinsey enhances these concerns by ... . Altogehter, these concerns impose strict challenges onto the automotive industry as consumer demands are unlikely to increase substantially without tangiable responses to the consumer needs. 
So what are the most probable ways automakers are going to deal with said concerns?



According to AlixPartners's Disruption Insights 2020 on the automotive industry, sales of battery-electric vehicles and hybrid vehicles have increased by 85 percent from 2017 - 2019 which fits the data shown in the previously mentioned McKinsey article. Predictions of AlixPartners indicate an increase in both plug-in hybrid electric vehicle sales as well as in battery-electric vehicle sales leading to a combined global sales share of 13 percent in 2025. 
This would mean an increase in sales by more than fourfold compared to a combined 3 percent market penetration in 2019.
Therefore, it seems quite understandable that virtually every automaker has announced to invest in electrification adding up to a total investment of 295 billion dollars for the years from 2019 to 2023. 
However, in order for these investments to eventually break even, the market needs to adopt to the new technologies in ways that lead to increased consumer acceptance. According to a recent McKinsey consumer survey, the bottleneck of EV success seems to be the consumer, not the technology. As outlined in the report, even currently accessible EV technology is able to satisfy day-to-day consumer needs in terms of range and charging speed. Still, relatively low purchase rates of EVs indicate major concerns which yet seem to be unresolved. Namely, the McKinsey survey identifies 5 major consumer concerns: Battery and charging, driving range, high costs, car experience and vehicle availability and sales.
Interestingly, battery and charging and driving range combined account for more than 50% of the perceived concerns. 



Reasoning structure:
1) Growth of BEVs and PHEVs
2) Heavy investments
3) For investments to break even, market share of EVs needs to rise
4) For market share to rise, consumers need to opt-in on trend
5) Consumer surveys from Alix and McKinsey point out following major consumer concerns
6) Market needs vary largely between regions, short explanation of D/E segment focus of US costumers vs. A/B segment focus of chinese costumers

First things first: 
- Innovation Insta Channels nachschauen, content benchmark ist world economic forum



Fuer weitere Infos kann ich mich an Jenny Rosenau ODER Jenny Jacke/ Jaake oder Jaacke??? von GO wenden und auf Gespraech mit Herrn Rudolph im ICE beziehen
In der Mail fuer weitere Infos genau angeben, welche Infos mir helfen wuerden!!! 
Infos in Bezug auf Taycan Sales, Vorbestellungen

Infos von Herrn Rudolph (oeffentlich kommuniziert):
- 30.000 Taycan Vorbestellungen eingegangen (keine Infos ueber Conversion Rate Vorbestellung -> Purchase bekannt)
- 20.000 Produktionskapazitaet fuer 2020 ausgelastet
- 15 Milliarden werden in Innovation ueber die kommenden Jahre investiert
- R&D Invest fuer Taycan kommuniziert?

Koennte man evtl. in jedem Artikel ein Fallbespiel mit reinbringen? Hier dann Porsche Taycan als konkretes Beispiel


3 Automotive Electrification ~ 20 - 25 year outlook
3.1 Challenges and potential solutions
3.1.1 Costs


3.1.2 Battery range

3.1.3 Charging infrastructure

3.2 Featured startups 

(4 Future technologies beyond electrification)

5 Classification of innovation according to Clayton Christensen
-> Sustaining innovation
-> New type of innovatin might be needed to explain automotive electrification as it doens't fit the typical sustaining innovation that results from a specific costumer need
  -> 'Enforced innovation'
6 Discussion


7 Citations

https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/McKinsey/Industries/Automotive%20and%20Assembly/Our%20Insights/McKinsey%20Electric%20Vehicle%20Index%20Europe%20cushions%20a%20global%20plunge%20in%20EV%20sales/McKinsey-Electric-Vehicle-Index-Europe-cushions-a-global-plunge-in-EV-sales-vF.pdf

https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/mckinsey/industries/automotive%20and%20assembly/our%20insights/the%20road%20ahead%20for%20e%20mobility/the-road-ahead-for-e-mobility-vf.pdf

https://www.alixpartners.com/media/14637/ap_di_auto_2020.pdf

https://www.marketsandmarkets.com/Market-Reports/hybrid-vehicle-market-159441728.html


















